.TH SLINE 3 sline\-VERSION
.SH NAME
.PP
sline_setup \- Set up terminal for use with
.BR sline (3)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include <sline.h>
.PP
.B int sline_setup(void);
.PP
.BI "extern int " sline_err ;
.PP
.BI "extern int " sline_history ;
.PP
.BI "extern size_t " sline_hist_entry_size ;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BR sline_setup ()
sets the terminal up for making it possible to use
.BR sline (3)
in a program.
.PP
This subroutine should be called always before calling
.BR sline (3) .
Failing to do so might lead to undefined behavior.
.SS Setting up and disabling user input history
.PP
User input history is always enabled by default,
but may be disabled by setting
.I sline_history
to zero (0)
before calling
.BR sline_setup ().
.PP
The amount of characters per entry is set to a value set at compile-time,
but can be overriden by setting
.I sline_hist_entry_size
before calling
.BR sline_setup ().
.PP
Modifying the values of
.I sline_history 
or 
.I sline_hist_entry_size
after having called
.BR sline_setup ()
may lead to undefined behavior.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
.BR sline_setup ()
returns 0 if no error occurred.
If an error did occur, a value less than 0 is returned 
and
.I sline_err
is set.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
On an error condition,
.BR sline_setup ()
sets
.I sline_err
as follows:
.TP
.B SLINE_ERR_MEMORY
Memory allocation failed.
.TP
.B SLINE_ERR_TERMIOS_GET
Terminal attributes could not be read.
.TP
.B SLINE_ERR_TERMIOS_SET
Terminal attributes could not be set.
.PP
.BR sline_errmsg (3)
may be used to retrieve an error message string to be presented to the user.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR sline (3), 
.BR sline_errmsg (3), 
.BR sline_end (3)
